or train today I'm gonna go over some
technique on how to benchpress properly
now there's a lot of articles and videos
out there about how to increase your
bench press weight and that's a people
seem most concerned about you know
different weight voting patterns with
the way and you know are chewing a lot
but I'm gonna show you what technique
you can increase your weight as well and
I think setting up with a good
foundation is key and moving up and
weight and also keeping everything safe
finished off specially your shoulder
joints now this is for you know strength
and conditioning purposes is not
necessarily for huge power lifters that
need to compete their techniques and be
a little bit different so the first
thing is the set up when you set up you
definitely want your feet on the ground
there'll be a lot of people you'll see
when the feet on the bench because they
think they need to keep their back flat
this may work a little bit by the way
but what happens your hips aren't stable
and they're things that move around and
you're not going to have the support
from the legs to keep your body stable
and also drive to borrow you actually
want to push your feet through the floor
when you're pressing so the first thing
I do is something get my feet in the
right spot some people like to be on
their toes I have my flat foot here the
second thing is if you can apply on an
eyes with the bar some people are way
back here depends on your bench where
your bet you could hit the pin so I must
be a little bit more from the bar and
have my eyes lined up the next thing is
the hand grip now that's a matter of
personal preference something like the
white of the grip because the bar
happens a lot shorter they will push up
or wait
feel stronger there some people like an
arrow grip use a little bit more triceps
that are you were tough the round was
close
I prefer right in a minute so if you see
there's a ring on the bar hair this is
the beginning of early I usually have my
pinky finger just right around the ring
now what I think about I tell people to
think about is if you're gonna push
somebody pushing something that's pretty
heavy you're not gonna push the way out
here you won't be strong enough you're
gonna push probably right in this zone
here give me your strongest so that's
kind of that grip you want
so again anyway see light on my eyes and
then maybe right here this right feel
comfortable some people like a false
privilege is wrapping around here but I
prefer here especially for beginners of
your power that there you know what
you're doing you can wrap here but it's
also a little bit dangerous and turn to
drop at the bar so I shouldn't know of a
spotter and I looks like why I'm it's
also I like it better as well the next
thing when you go to unwrap the bar
we're gonna pull our shoulder blades
together so what it's gonna look like
I'm gonna retract my shoulder blades and
actually sit on the bench like this I
want two points of contact on my
shoulders and I'm gonna lock them in
there they're not gonna move what do you
see people bench pressing and their
shoulders are all gonna play so when
they say they hurt their shoulders
because their shoulders aren't pinched
back so I'm gonna sub my shoulder blades
together and keep them locked down so
feet eyes grip suck the shoulder blades
together so when I get that I'm ready to
lift now when you lift we're going to do
two things we're going to squeeze tight
so I'm going to squeeze my butt tight
because I have my show always pinched
back together losing maybe a little bit
higher arch in the back
that is okay I just I keep my but times
that keeps my hips stable if I loosen it
up as a lob all the way so keep your
butt tight legs strong and that'll
protect that the other thing I'm gonna
squeeze is the bar and that's why I like
the thumb around when I squeeze the bar
I have tension and I'm able to lift a
lot more weight about here I have total
squeeze the bar really tight with my
hands with your and I said it's a little
bit dangerous or here it's a little
stronger than we can really squeeze the
next thing is thinking about I tell my
athletes compressing a spring so you'll
see kids and commercial gyms just
balance everything off your chest and
then try to push it up so it's very fast
going down to the chest and then they
try to push the bar what I like to have
a new is control the bar down as if
they're compressive Spring roping the
bar down the back and squeeze another so
again set up feet eyes grip but tight
pinch now I'm going to rip get my elbows
in and compress the spring nice and slow
when I get that stretch I keep my
attention and squeeze up so again
control down I don't let my tension out
and drive so you're gonna control down
the chest by pulling you don't let your
hair out but also everything those
things to control down and drive level
the last thing you want to think about
is pressing in the straight line I used
to press a little bit backwards towards
the rack and I learned that this isn't
the best
for strength you want to push more in a
straight line it is common when I have a
spotter to kind of go back a little bit
some people like powers tend to driving
a little bit backwards but they have
these high arches but what I do is now
is that pick a line kind of on the
ceiling above me focus on that line and
then try to keep my bar path as straight
as possible so there's no excessive
movement or of that that keeps my elbows
tough as well you'll see someone with
heavy weight if they get scared gonna
flare their elbows out that puts a lot
of pressure on the shoulders trying to
get it back that way
I'm gonna keep my elbows tucked and keep
everything in a straight line so they're
big strong here so last time feet down
eyes grip but tight pinch always drive
up straight line sweet
try everything tight and compressed so
there you have it now if you're doing
more weight and almost like you're
trying this your technique you're
probably not the drop the bar way down
you might even feel yourself get a
little bit weaker as a result but I
guarantee if you stabilize everything
you're gonna be stronger in the long run
so work this technique keep your
shoulders safe and have fun match
president
you